README.md, before:

# vm_eira
My own virtual machine. Just for Fun.


A hobby project in C which implements a virtual machine with very loose specifications.
Current state is a RISC-inspired little endian story with 64kb memory address limit.

The plan is to make it cross-platform compatible, but as it is developed under Linux
current implementation relies on ANSI escape sequences for "screen output".

GPU
---
The GPU is a co-processor to the main CPU which handles all the display related opcodes.
It constantly iterates over a ring buffer of instructions which are inserted by the main
CPU whenever it hit a GPU related opcode. The default instruction is "wait" which of
course means do nothing.

I/O Port
--------
The Eira machine has an I/O port consisting of 16 inputs and 16 outputs.
It is possible to set the input port by writing to the file IO_INPUT_PORT (defined in ioport.h)
and it is possible to read the output port by reading the file IO_OUTPUT_PORT.

Should the virtual machine unexpectedly crash, it will be neccessary to manually remove
these files before the machine can be restarted (as you will notice by the error messages).

Example usage:
ech0 2140 > <IO_INPUT_PORT>
Set input pins 2,3,4,6 and 11 high.

cat <IO_OUPUT_PORT>
Returns numeric value of 16 bit output port.


RAM Map
-------

0xffff	|-----------------
		|
		|
		|
		|
		| SCREEN MEM
		|
		|
		|
07fff	|----------------
		|
		|
		| PROGRAM MEM
		|
		|
		|
		|
0x1000	|----------------
		|
		| ROM CODE
0x0200	|----------------
		| I/O MEM
0x01C0	|----------------
		|
		|
		| RESERVED
0x0000	|----------------

Commit message:

gpu: drop instruction ring buffer design
The ring buffer design instroduced some latency in
the rendering. The new design is a simple FIFO buffer
which seems to work better.

README.md, after:

# vm_eira
My own virtual machine. Just for Fun.


A hobby project in C which implements a virtual machine with very loose specifications.
Current state is a RISC-inspired little endian story with 64kb memory address limit.

The plan is to make it cross-platform compatible, but as it is developed under Linux
current implementation relies on ANSI escape sequences for "screen output".

GPU
---
The GPU is a co-processor to the main CPU which handles all the display related opcodes.
It works on an instruction list which the main CPU populates whenever it hit a GPU related
opcode. The default instruction is "wait" which of course means do nothing.

I/O Port
--------
The Eira machine has an I/O port consisting of 16 inputs and 16 outputs.
It is possible to set the input port by writing to the file IO_INPUT_PORT (defined in ioport.h)
and it is possible to read the output port by reading the file IO_OUTPUT_PORT.

Should the virtual machine unexpectedly crash, it will be neccessary to manually remove
these files before the machine can be restarted (as you will notice by the error messages).

Example usage:
ech0 2140 > <IO_INPUT_PORT>
Set input pins 2,3,4,6 and 11 high.

cat <IO_OUPUT_PORT>
Returns numeric value of 16 bit output port.


RAM Map
-------

0xffff	|-----------------
		|
		|
		|
		|
		| SCREEN MEM
		|
		|
		|
07fff	|----------------
		|
		|
		| PROGRAM MEM
		|
		|
		|
		|
0x1000	|----------------
		|
		| ROM CODE
0x0200	|----------------
		| I/O MEM
0x01C0	|----------------
		|
		|
		| RESERVED
0x0000	|----------------
